[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Dr. Theresa Bullard with
us, PhD and physicist
and international instructor
in Advanced Initiate
with the Modern Mystery School,
also host of the "Mystery
Teachings" on Gaia.
I hope you watch that show.
It's great.
Dr. Bullard weaves together
her formal background
in science with this deep
training in the Western mystery
school lineage.
Welcome to the program.
>>THERESA BULLARD: Thank you.
It's a pleasure.
>>NOORY: It's fascinating.
How did you become a physicist?
I'm curious.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
well, I was on my way
to try and figure
out what college I
wanted to go to
for undergraduate
and what I wanted to major in.
And while I was on a
road trip at one point,
driving to different
colleges, I was looking out
at the stars at night one
day through the desert,
and as I was looking out at
the stars, I was so inspired.
I was like, wow, it's
amazing, because when
you're in the desert, you can
just see the whole Milky Way.
>>NOORY: Everything, everything.
>>BULLARD: And I thought,
oh, what is out there?
I was just thinking,
what is out there?
I want to know what's
out there-- something
beyond our mundane little
lives here on Earth
because I thought there's
so much more going on.
And in that moment, I
had this, oh, that's
what I'm going to
major in-- astronomy.
>>NOORY: The epiphany
hit you, right?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, it did.
But then I ended up going
to the University of Denver,
and they didn't have
astronomy as a major,
and they said, well, if you're
going to go to graduate school
at some point, then
the most important
is you have physics
as a solid foundation,
and so why don't you get
your Bachelor's in physics?
And so that's what got me
on the path of physics.
And then they
said, well, you can
do astronomy or
astrophysics later when
you get to graduate school.
And so things just
kind of led me to it.
I would not have
actually selected it,
but the university just kept
steering me back into it,
even though I thought,
I'm not sure I
want to stay with physics
because, actually, of all
the subjects, it was the one
I struggled with the most.
>>NOORY: It's not easy.
When you think of what Einstein
had to go through, my gosh.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Yeah, and also, honestly,
in physics education,
they train you with
classical physics first,
and it's the Newtonian
way of thinking
and that classical and
mechanical way of doing things.
And then later,
they introduce you
to the quantum physics
and the modern particle
high-energy physics stuff.
And for me, I always had
a more intuitive sense
of the quantum a
deeper interest in it,
whereas the classical stuff--
I was just like, I
don't care about this.
Why do I need to
know this, right?
And so I struggled with physics
because it was so oriented
towards that classical
indoctrination
first before we got into
the interesting stuff.
>>NOORY: And you've kind
of mixed real science
with these mystery teachings.
>>BULLARD: Yep.
>>NOORY: And that's
an interesting blend.
How did that happen for you?
>>BULLARD: Well, when I
was in graduate school--
so I was just really
immersed in physics.
So by the time I was
in graduate school,
it was like 80 hours
of physics a week.
>>NOORY: I mean, you
were a scientist.
>>BULLARD: I was.
Yeah, I was doing my research.
I was doing my training
and classwork and tests
and all that kind of stuff,
and I was just immersed in it.
And after about a year of that,
I got really out of balance
because 80 hours left brain
only, and I had nothing else.
And so I was really out
of balance after a year,
and I got kind of
depressed, and I
was really dissatisfied with how
things were happening in school
because I would want to
ask questions like, well,
what does this
observer effect mean?
What do these
quantum things mean?
And they didn't want
to talk about meaning.
They said don't ask about
philosophical stuff.
>>NOORY: They didn't
have answers, that's why.
>>BULLARD: Well they didn't want
to bring those skeletons out
of the closet, right?
So they said, just
pass your test,
don't ask questions like that.
Just do your research,
get your degree
and don't worry
about that stuff.
>>NOORY: Be a good physicist.
Don't ask questions.
>>BULLARD: Right, exactly.
And so after about a
year of graduate school,
I was just really
dissatisfied, and I
needed to find
something that was
going to bring meaning
and balance and purpose
back into my life.
And long story short, it
took me about a year--
I systematically brought
all these other aspects
of life back in, like social
time and creative hobbies
and relationships.
And then, about a year later,
it was like, OK, well, things
are better, but they're
still not great.
I'm still not happy, and
there's some core piece
of meaning still missing.
>>NOORY: From you.
>>BULLARD: For me.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
And then this little
new aha moment,
that light bulb turned
on at some point
as I was contemplating it.
And it was like, oh, you haven't
brought back in spirituality
because I'd had it before, but
it was never really primary,
or so it didn't seem like it was
that important for me before.
And I was raised in a fairly
open metaphysical family, which
was a great advantage, but I
didn't gravitate towards it.
And then at that point, I
was like, all right, well,
let's give it a shot.
And so I started diving into
science and consciousness.
At that point, I was so
well-trained in physics
that I couldn't
start to just believe
on blind faith or anything
that didn't complement
what I knew scientifically.
So I needed the
deeper stuff, and so I
got into all the science
and consciousness, science
and spirituality, and then
eventually that led me
to alchemy and sacred geometry.
And that's where I
was like, oh, now this
is really getting interesting.
Now we're getting into
some deeper stuff here.
>>NOORY: Stuff you like.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
And then I was
looking for community,
and the way I got into
the Modern Mystery School
was really just a
personal request
to the universe-- like, hey,
I want to find my tribe,
my path, my spiritual family.
I was feeling
really isolated, not
being able to talk to
people at the level of depth
that I was looking for.
And within a two-week period
after making that request
to the universe, synchronicity
came around and introduced me
to somebody who was doing
a life activation modality
with the Modern Mystery
School, and that
was my introduction in.
>>NOORY: And you're hooked.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Well, I wasn't
hooked right away.
I noticed results
right away, though.
And as I got this
life activation--
and I had had lots of other
energy modalities done on me--
Reiki and this and that and
hands-on healing and all
these--
I thought I had activated my
DNA all this kind of stuff--
but they felt good in the
moment but didn't really produce
long range results,
whereas after this life
activation from the
Modern Mystery School,
it was subtle in the
moment, but it was clear.
I felt it.
And then I started
seeing results,
and they just kept going
and going and going.
After about four
months, I finally
realized like, oh, my purpose
is to bring the two together--
to bring the science and
the spirituality together,
and that meant I was going
to go on a different track
than what I was being trained
to do in traditional science.
>>NOORY: Would you
consider yourself
a rarity in that you're
a scientist, you're
a physicist who is also
studying metaphysics and mystery
schools?
That's a rarity.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Yeah, I'm a rarity.
Yeah, so there are lots
of scientists, though, who
are studying into
various metaphysical,
whether they're more
Eastern mystical,
or some are Western mystical.
But I would say that I've really
gravitated deeply into almost
like a PhD in
Western metaphysics.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: And then
a PhD in physics.
>>NOORY: Which do you prefer?
>>BULLARD:
Metaphysics, for sure.
>>NOORY: I thought so.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
And that became my passion, and
my heart really called me more
towards that.
So once I finished
my PhD in physics,
I was very clearly ready to
kind of verge away from it
because it just
felt so stifling.
>>NOORY: Are you glad you
have that physics background?
>>BULLARD: I am now, yeah.
I learned a lot
from the process,
and it does put me in a unique
position to be able to--
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
Huge.
>>BULLARD: --weave
the two together,
and it's fascinating
to me, actually,
to see how well the teachings
from kabbalah and alchemy
and so forth weave together
with modern science.
>>NOORY: Albert Einstein
wrestled with believing in God.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And he got
to the point where
I think he thought there
was something there.
He wasn't quite sure what.
Where are you with that?
>>BULLARD: Where am I
with the idea of God?
>>NOORY: With the idea
of this divine creator.
>>BULLARD: Oh, I've
never had a doubt
that there was some divine
aspect to the world,
to the universe.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: And so I've
always had that deep sense
that there is a
source, that there's
an intelligence behind the
universe, that there's spirit.
And yet, to me, the
idea of God is not
like the religious kind
of connotation of God
of the patriarch kind of--
>>NOORY: Fire or
damnation and all that.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, I never
really resonated with that.
To me, it's infinite mind.
It's infinite intelligence
and eternal being and spirit
energy, and you can't
really define it so well,
and then I feel that
there are levels
of that source that
then somehow organizes
itself to create the universe.
And at each sort of node of
that hierarchical structure,
so to speak, there's
intelligence behind it.
There's spirit in everything.
>>NOORY: Tell us about your
Mystery Teachings show on Gaia.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so
Mystery Teachings--
we've had now--
Season 1 has all been produced--
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>BULLARD: And Season 1
is very much about physics
and metaphysics.
>>NOORY: A good blend.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, where
is science at today?
What is it telling
us, especially
from the quantum paradigm?
Because even though we believe
quantum physics is true now,
and we know it, we still
think in a Newtonian way.
We still tend to think
in a very classical way
because that's what our
three-dimensional world--
>>NOORY: The apple drops
and stuff like that.
>>BULLARD: Yes.
Yes.
And you throw a
ball, you kind of
have a sense of where
it's going to go.
And so because of our
thinking in a Newtonian way,
though, we've kind of
created a limitation.
We've put ourselves in a box,
and we have this everything
has to be linear,
logical, mechanical, kind
of structured way of operating.
But in our world today, it's
not working that way anymore.
It's like, we've evolved beyond
the Scientific Revolution
and the Industrial Age
into the Digital Age
and into the Quantum
Age is coming.
And we need to start thinking
in a more quantum way
to adapt to the rapid
pace of life today.
And so Season 1 is
really about, how
do we understand these
quantum principles?
But not just because oh,
the physics is interesting,
but how does it
apply to our life?
And so then, bringing in
the metaphysics to say,
OK, well, ancient
spiritual teachings
have been saying the same
thing that science is now
coming back around to.
It's like we were there,
because science came out
of alchemy, for example.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: And
then we went away.
The science sort of split away
from alchemy, which was more
a spiritually integrated path.
And now with quantum
physics, it's
like we're kind of
coming full circle back,
even though traditional
scientists wouldn't
want to see it that way.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>BULLARD: So for
me, it's like, look,
these are two
different languages,
but they're really
saying similar things.
And yet with the
mystical approach,
you can kind of view beyond
what the physics can show us.
And so maybe we can
bridge the gap with--
>>NOORY: Maybe.
>>BULLARD: Maybe.
I think we can.
I deliver what I hope are some
convincing realizations for how
the two complement each other.
I'm not going to say
that science proves this,
but they certainly complement,
and they're really pointing
at a lot of the same things.
But more important is,
how does it apply to us?
And that was one question I
got a lot as a physicist--
well, what are you researching?
Why should I care?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: How does
it apply to me?
And when I was in
physics, I couldn't really
answer that question for
them because I was just
doing basic science research.
It didn't really
apply to people.
But now, I do see how
this stuff applies.
>>NOORY: Now you get it.
>>BULLARD: And so yeah,
it's like, who are we?
What does this tell
us about who we
are and our potential and
the capacities that we have?
So that we can start shifting
our internal paradigm of who
we are and then the
world that is around us
and the impact that
we can have upon it
so that we can be more empowered
to activate our potential.
>>NOORY: What is our, Theresa,
what is our human potential,
anyways?
Is it unlimited?
>>BULLARD: I believe
it's unlimited
when we're looking at
it from we are spirit.
If we think that we are an
eternal being as opposed to I
am this body.
If I think I am this
body, well, then,
yes, there's limitations here.
We have the physical laws that
we have to sort of abide by.
But when we realize
that this body is just
a vehicle for the
spirit and the soul,
and as we reach more into
that eternal energy, then
now the potentials
are limitless.
And if we can bring that
in more, that energy
can come into the body
and help transform,
transmute, wake
its potential up.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>BULLARD: We're probably
accessing right now
a very small percentage.
We say that we have
1% to 3% of our DNA
is actively used to code the
proteins that build the body.
>>NOORY: That's not a lot.
>>BULLARD: It's not.
There's this other
97% to 99% of the DNA
that science is now calling
non-coding sections of the DNA.
They used to call it junk DNA.
They just didn't
know what it did,
and so there's this huge,
huge portion of our DNA
that science still
doesn't know what it does.
So we believe its
potential, that there's
a lot of genetic
potential in there,
and there's instruction
codes, and there's
things that need to be
turned on that can activate
new genetic potentials like
super-immunity and ability
to regenerate our bodies and
more enhanced brain activity.
In our brain, we
have 100% capacity
of our brain being used, but
we're only conscious of just
maybe 5% to 10%.
And so we can expand more
of our conscious awareness
of what's happening
within our body as well.
We have a lot of room
for growth there.
And then there's our senses.
We have our five
physical senses.
We have energetic fields that
we can sense through as well.
And again, with any
of our five senses,
for example, there's
just a narrow range
of the spectrum of
possibility of energy
that we're perceiving.
You think of the visible
light spectrum, what we see--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: It's
such a narrow slice
in the electromagnetic spectrum.
And then you have
people who claim
to be clairvoyant, for example,
and that they see energy.
Well, maybe they are.
Maybe they just
have a little bit
of a broader range
of what they are
able to perceive consciously
through their senses.
And so I think that that is a
potential that's in all of us,
that we have these capacities
to expand how much we're really
manifesting of our
full potential.
>>NOORY: "Mystery Teachings"--
you deal with a lot
of subjects.
Let's take a look.
>>BULLARD: Initiates in the
Mystery School traditions
have long been aware of
this potential within us.
Thousands of years
ago, King Solomon,
one of the greatest Western
Mystery School lineage holders,
was searching for
a way to activate
the galactic codes
and the divinity codes
within each person's
tree of life.
We now know this tree
of life is our DNA.
It is the blueprint
of who we are.
But most people come
into this physical life
with only a fraction of
their tree of life activated.
King Solomon knew that there
was a time in the beginning when
humans were fully activated but
that we lost that over time.
Yet it was prophecy that one
day humans would once again
rise to their full glory as
godlike, perfected humans.
In kabbalah, we call this the
Adam Kadmon, the Perfected
Human.
King Solomon made it his
mission to discovering
the universal methods to
reactivating all of our codes.
They made great progress at
turning on many of the codes
and establishing the
foundation needed
for our evolutionary
leap, but the time
was not yet right for humanity
to awaken their final codes
during King Solomon's
time or to access
their full power of their
galactic and divine nature.
But now is the time.
We are ready, and
the human collective
is poised to make a
great leap forward.
We are the ones our ancestors
have been waiting for.
>>NOORY: That's a great clip.
>>BULLARD: Ah, thank you.
>>NOORY: King Solomon had
it together, didn't he?
>>BULLARD: King Solomon
was pretty amazing.
And there's different
teachings between what
we would read to say if we're
only looking at the Bible
and what we receive when
we're in the oral tradition
of the Mystery Schools because
the Mystery Schools really
were more about
their oral tradition
than just what was written down.
And so the oral
teachings, which was
some of what I was giving
there in that clip,
is that King Solomon
really gathered
all the different tribes
during his time and the sages
and the medicine
people and the shamans,
and they all came
together, and they
sort of cross-compared notes
and modalities and tools
and knowledge and
teachings because it
was like they all had
a piece, but no one had
the whole picture.
>>NOORY: What was
Solomon looking for?
What answers was he seeking?
>>BULLARD: He was
seeking for the keys
to how to restore humans to
their full divine potential,
which, in his tradition,
the kabbalistic tradition,
they call it the
Adam Kadmon, which
means the perfected human,
or the godlike human.
And he knew from his
tradition that this
was a potential within
humans, that we,
at one point in
our original state,
we were this divine human.
And whether we're looking at--
it doesn't matter which
tradition we're looking at,
whether it's a
Judeo-Christian or a Buddhist,
all of these different
spiritual traditions,
they have this prophecy or
this mythology, let's say,
of the original state of humans.
And that original state,
there was more harmony,
there was more wisdom, there
was more enlightenment,
there was this ability
to see beyond the veil,
to walk and talk with
the angels, so to speak.
And then at some point,
we fell out of that state,
or we kind of came
into a denser state,
where some of those
codes got turned off.
And so King Solomon's
goal was to try and find
a way back to that state but in
such a way that we activated it
for ourselves,
that we earned it.
>>NOORY: Did he ever
find those answers?
>>BULLARD: He found
a lot of answers,
and they developed this
very universal system
of teachings and
modalities to help turn
on more of that potential.
So, for example,
that life activation
that I was mentioning
before was one
of the modalities that
came out of his time,
3,000 plus years ago.
And they found a lot
that would support
the awakening of people.
But they never found
those final codes
to actually get
to the final piece
because as I was
saying in the clip,
it just wasn't the
timing on the planet.
>>NOORY: Have we found
those codes today?
>>BULLARD: We
have, but now, it's
a matter of the codes
are there, and they've
been coming through,
so there's more
like galactic kind of energies
coming through these days
and giving us those final
pieces to turn on the codes.
But it's almost
like it has to build
on top of the old foundation
that all the tribes came up
with during the time
of King Solomon.
And upon that foundation, we
can build to the next level
to that new paradigm energy.
>>NOORY: Theresa, what
does ascension mean to you?
>>BULLARD: So to
me, ascension means
that we are raising the
vibration of the body up,
so we're ascending
with the body.
And at the same time, we're
bringing the spirit more down
to be fully embodied
into the physical.
And it's like you almost
can't raise the body up
without bringing the spirit
down because the spirit
energy coming in is what
activates more and transforms
and transmutes the physical
body to become more of what
we would call the light body.
So it's this dual action of
involution and embodiment
and then evolution and
ascension towards a higher
dimension, higher--
to me, dimension doesn't mean
physical, spatial dimensions
in this case.
It means more vibrational
planes of different frequencies,
higher frequencies.
>>NOORY: When they talk
about Jesus ascending--
>>BULLARD: Yes.
>>NOORY: Is that
almost the same thing?
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
I think that, in that case with
Jesus, they say that he did.
He took his body with him.
So he was said to have
come back from the dead.
So he defeated death, and
he wasn't the only one
who defeated death.
We also have stories
of Osiris and Oden
and some of these
sacrificial god archetypes.
And yet Jesus defeated death and
then ascended the body back up
to these higher
spiritual planes.
>>NOORY: How can
we as individuals
tap into that kind of mindset in
order to change our own lives?
>>BULLARD: Yeah, so one
is to realize that we all
have that potential within.
Even in Jesus' teachings, he
says, all these things I do,
you shall do and more.
So it's like, we
have this potential,
and this is where, I think,
a lot of religious dogma
comes in and limits people,
and it suppresses them
and makes them feel
like they're not worthy.
And yet we are, and so we need
to reclaim our worthiness,
number one, that I
can improve my life,
that I do deserve
better, that I can
activate more potential within
me, that I do have gifts.
So first, it's, I
think, for people
to just shift the way
they define themselves
and how they identify
as being capable.
And then second, through the
right tools and knowledge,
we can take those and
apply them into our life.
And as we apply these tools
and the right knowledge,
it helps us to start
creating our life
as an empowered
co-creator as opposed
to just sort of being at
the effect of everything.
>>NOORY: What percent
of people, do you think,
will have that ability
to make that move?
>>BULLARD: I think 100% of
people have the ability.
The question is whether
they have the will.
>>NOORY: Good point.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
So I can give somebody the
tools and maybe a few sessions
that help activate and
turn on those lights
and those switches for them.
But whether they
then take those tools
and apply them into their
life, that's about will.
And it is by will
that we really make
those things happen in lives.
So it's not something that--
I think ascension is
something that we have
to be active participants with.
Alchemy is the same thing.
We have to learn how it works so
that we can drive the process.
>>NOORY: It's not just
making gold, is it?
>>BULLARD: Right.
No, it's about our own--
it's our transformation, not
only of ourselves but also
of the transformation
we can affect
in the world in the
physical domain.
But first, we have
to do it inside.
But it's not going
to happen on its own.
See, we have to be active
participants with it
because otherwise we resist it.
We resist change.
And so if we're resisting our
transformation or our change,
it's going to be a much
slower process, left up
to just natural evolution
to get us there.
And yet if we participate
with our change
and our transformation,
and we understand--
this is what alchemy
is all about.
Understand the laws of nature.
Understand the laws
of the universe
so that we can harness
them and then speed it up.
And that's what
ascension is about-- it's
about doing the alchemy
so that we can speed up
our own evolution.
But we have to participate
with it in the right way.
>>NOORY: Lee Harris, who is
a healer and a channeler,
talked about ascension as well.
Let's get his perspective
from the Gaia show Buzzsaw.
>>BULLARD: OK.
>>LEE HARRIS: Well, I feel
we all have a connection.
So my perspective on it is there
are many, many, many layers.
So there are all
of these layers.
There are all of
these dimensions.
And some of us will align
with a certain group
or a certain guide,
but I do believe we all
have our own guides.
But I've met some channelers
who are not just channelers who
are in the public realm.
I've met some people who
are channeling off-world,
and that's their
contact, and I've
met others who don't
see it that way,
but they just have a wisdom
voice or a higher self.
So for me, everything up here
is accessible to all of us
if we either have an opening,
or we cultivate a desire.
So one thing I kind
of recognize is
I bought this book called "How
to Connect with your Spiritual
Guide" not long before
I started channeling.
I never read it, but I
had it in my presence,
and I'm a big believer in that--
have the title or the word
or the affirmation
in your presence,
and it kind of helps send
a sign to the universe
that you're open and ready.
But I do believe
everyone has contact.
>>NOORY: Well, he's like you.
He believes everybody
has that ability.
>>BULLARD: Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I fully agree that
everyone has that ability
to connect to their own
guides and to angelic beings
and to spirit, and it
starts with our intention,
and it starts with opening
up, saying, OK, I need help.
And that's what got
me going on my path,
was I need help,
guide me, support me,
help me find my path, help
me find the right people.
And when we put that request out
to the universe, to our guides,
whoever, whatever
aspect we believe in--
yeah, then we're
opening the door.
There's a spiritual law of free
will that others of the light
would not impose upon
another person's will.
And so for us to have that
support coming in from spirit,
we have to ask for it
because otherwise, they
can't impose upon our will.
And so the asking
and the intention
opens up the door for that
to come in and support us.
>>NOORY: You have
made a dramatic change
from the physicist to where
you are today, haven't you?
>>BULLARD: I have.
Oh my gosh, it's been--
who I was then and who I am
today are completely different.
>>NOORY: Night and day.
>>BULLARD: Completely different.
Yeah.
And yet I feel that
I am who I always
felt like I was inside but was
never really quite ready to be.
And now I'm becoming that.
And 100% of that is
because of my path
with the Mystery
School and the training
that I've been through--
through initiations, through
the kabbalistic ascension
process up the tree
of life, through all
the different
activations and codes
that have been awakened
and keys and so forth.
But again, I always took those
tools, and I applied them,
and I really let
them in my life.
>>NOORY: Theresa, what is
called the New Shambhala?
What is that?
>>BULLARD: OK, so the New
Shambhala is the prophecy,
so to speak, of,
we mentioned how
there was the mythology
that originally we
came from this
divine state, and it
was more of this enlightened
society or Garden of Eden
or whatever.
The New Shambhala is
a prophecy that we
will return to that state.
It's similar to the New Garden
of Eden, the Fifth World--
there's all these
different prophecies
from different traditions
that point to--
it's like the 1,000
Years of Peace
or a time of harmony and
prosperity and everybody
getting along, no more wars,
no more disease, and so forth.
>>NOORY: It would be nice.
>>BULLARD: It sure would.
What's fascinating is
that even scientists
are talking about this.
They talk about when they're
looking at, for example,
if there's intelligent life out
there in the universe that's
advanced to a certain level--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: --how
can we classify that
so that we can then start to
study the signals coming in
from outer space
and see if we can
detect any other
advanced civilizations?
>>NOORY: Or
communicate with them.
>>BULLARD: Right.
And so they talk
about-- in science,
they have a Type 1, a Type 2,
a Type 3, and a Type 4 society,
and these are all based on
how much energy we harness.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: And right
now, on that scale,
we would be a 0.7 type society.
>>NOORY: We're not
even at a Type 1?
>>BULLARD: We're not
even at a Type 1.
A Type 1 society is harnessing
all the energy of their planet
to the point where they can
control the weather, where
they can harness all the
sunlight that hits the planet.
I mean, they're harnessing it.
>>NOORY: We've got aways to go.
>>BULLARD: We have aways
to go, but scientists
are predicting that within the
next 100 years, we're there.
So we're right at the precipice,
and the current generations--
>>NOORY: There's not a lot of
time, not in universal time.
>>BULLARD: There is
not a lot of time
because we have this
acceleration that's
happening technologically,
and yet there's
lack of wisdom in how
we're applying all
of those technologies
and that advancement,
and then that's having its
impact on the environment,
or it's having its impact
on population control.
I mean, it's having its impact
in so many different ways,
and we're tinkering with things
because we have the knowledge,
but we kind of lack
the wisdom for how
to really apply that
knowledge in the right way.
>>NOORY: How long
will it take to get up
to a Type 4 civilization?
>>BULLARD: Oh, that--
>>NOORY: Billions of years?
>>BULLARD: Without
intervention by alien races
who have already
accomplished it,
I think it would
take a long time.
>>NOORY: But can we get there?
>>BULLARD: Of course
we can get there.
>>NOORY: If you don't
kill yourselves.
>>BULLARD: As long as we
don't destroy ourselves
in the process.
So right now, this transition
note that we're in right now,
that this generation
and the kids today--
we're the most
critical generation
in terms of successfully making
that leap to the Type 1 society
or completely failing
and creating a dystopia.
And so we're on
this divergent path,
and we have one or the
other, and I believe,
personally, it has everything
to do with human consciousness.
>>NOORY: I think so.
>>BULLARD: All
right, and we have
to hit that critical
mass of awakening
to a higher level of
personal responsibility
and conscious choice in how
we're going to apply things
for the good of the
whole rather than just
for the gain of the ego.
And that's, to me,
why I've dedicated
my life to the teachings
with the Mystery School
is because it is
such a critical time.
And I think if I'm going to do
something with my time that's
going to really make
the most impact,
I want to do it in a
way that helps support
that collective awakening.
>>NOORY: Physicist
Michio Kaku also talks
about the types of
civilizations we're at
and would agree
with you that we're
in the infant stage on the list.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Yeah, and his book
"Parallel Worlds"
really addresses these
four types of societies.
And I think he's got a
very inspiring message
by the end of it all that
yeah, this is an exciting time
to be alive, and we
have huge possibility
and huge potential
of what's coming down
the line in the next--
even just in the
next five years,
our world is going to
be completely different
than it was.
>>NOORY: We want to be
part of that, don't we?
>>BULLARD: We do, yeah.
We want to be part of it, and
I think we want to direct it
in a good way because there's--
>>NOORY: If we can.
>>BULLARD: If we can.
Well, I think we can, and this
is where a lot of times people
think, oh, it's in the
power of the governments
and the hands of the
people with the money,
and they're the ones
manipulating and controlling.
And that might be true, but
if we can hit critical mass
within the collective
of regular people
to awaken to a higher level
of personal responsibility,
a higher level of I
am going to achieve
more of my personal potential.
I am also going to step into
service in a way that really
benefits the whole
rather than just doing it
for personal gain, then if we
can hit that critical mass,
we will shift the tide
of whatever the 1%
is that's controlling
things now.
And if we can get 1% to 3%
of the masses to wake up,
it'll shift the tide.
And I think, then, that there's
this spontaneous up-leveling
that happens across the whole
of humanity at that point.
>>NOORY: Theresa, what
are Mystery Schools?
>>BULLARD: Mystery Schools are--
so from the training
that I've received,
we would define a
Mystery School as having
an ancient lineage that
dates back pretty far,
and it's unbroken.
So we can have
lineage where it's
like, there's the teachings,
and maybe some initiate wrote
a book, and later
we pick up the book,
and we study the teachings.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Newer things are added to it.
>>BULLARD: Right.
So that, we would not
call a Mystery School
because yes, the
teachings, but there
is a gap now in the initiations
and in the oral handing
down, whereas in
a Mystery School,
the lineage is unbroken, and it
goes back-- the farther back it
goes, the more energy
that's been built up
in the collective that
surrounds that lineage.
And so in the lineage, there's
both the oral teachings
of how to really
apply the knowledge.
So it's not just
about the information.
It's about the application.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: And then there's
initiations and different
empowerments that are conducted
from person to person--
in person, not
remotely, but in person.
And then each Mystery
School actually
anchors what we
would call a ray, so
these different rays
of creative energy
that flow down from
the spiritual realms
into the physical.
And there's a certain
number of rays
that are anchored on the
planet that then need to be
distributed to the collective.
And so each Mystery
School is like a guardian
of one of those rays.
And that's not something
that we just start.
It's something that's
handed down and passed down.
>>NOORY: How do you
get into the schools?
>>BULLARD: So we
talk about there
being seven ancient Mystery
School lineages on the planet,
and I can even name
where they are.
There's Tibet, high
in the Himalayas.
>>NOORY: OK, you
would expect that.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
and the Dalai Lama
is the head of that
initiatory lineage.
There's Japan, on Mt.
Kurama.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BULLARD: There's a
Japanese Mystery School.
There is in Europe, currently
in England somewhere--
>>NOORY: Really.
England?
>>BULLARD: Probably
anchored in Glastonbury,
but it's behind the
scenes at this point.
>>NOORY: It's a mystery.
>>BULLARD: It is a mystery.
But at one point in
time, they did come out
as the Golden Dawn.
Prior to that, it was
the Fama Fraternitatis.
They're also connected into
the lineage of King Solomon.
There's one in North America
that was held for a long time
by the Hopi, and then that
got transferred into--
there was a blending
or uniting that
happened between
lineage of King Solomon
from the Golden Dawn sort of
European tradition and lineage
with the Native American
lineage that was anchored here
in North America.
And that then was when
the Modern Mystery
School opened its doors, is
when those two lines combined.
And then there was
one in Romania,
and that one's deep in
the Transylvania Alps.
And there was one in Australia
and one in the Congo in Africa.
>>NOORY: Who determines where
they were and what they did?
Different groups?
>>BULLARD: I think that
the spiritual planes
would determine that.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BULLARD: So it was
something that was anchored,
and then the keys
and the guardianship
and the responsibility
for that ray and that--
each ray has unique purpose.
Therefore, each Mystery School
has unique function or purpose
in the energies it's supposed
to be generating and sending out
to the collective and the types
of teachings that it offers.
And so these are the
ancient lineages.
There was more on the
planet at one time,
but some of those
other lineages,
it's like there
was a gap, and they
lost the transfer of energy.
And so now there's these
seven, and of those seven, one,
in any one century, one of
them will open its doors
so that people from the
public can find their way.
But you never know
how long that's
going to last with
the doors being open.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: And then so
in the last century,
the Golden Dawn,
the one in England,
was open-door and
the early 1900s.
>>NOORY: How many people
attend these schools, Theresa?
Lots?
>>BULLARD: That depends
on the school, I think.
Some of them, it's going to be
just a small group of people.
>>NOORY: 10 people?
>>BULLARD: Possibly.
>>NOORY: Really.
That small?
>>BULLARD: For example--
>>NOORY: Or less.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
I mean, some of them, depending
on the times that they were in,
it could have been at
threat of their life
to even believe in
those things because it
didn't agree with whatever the
political or religious powers
that be were wanting to
establish as the main.
And so there's persecutions,
and there was inquisitions
and all these kinds of things.
And so sometimes they had
to do it very underground
just to preserve and
protect the lineage.
>>NOORY: And protect themselves.
That's right.
>>BULLARD: And then
other times, the society
would be ready for them to
come out into the open again,
and you'd have a
renaissance, a golden age,
an age of enlightenment when
those teachings came out again.
So last century was the Golden
Dawn that opened its doors.
This century, it's the
Modern Mystery School
that's opened its doors.
>>NOORY: Give us an example
of what these schools could do
for somebody or for a group
of people or for a society.
>>BULLARD: So for
us, for example,
within the Modern
Mystery School,
it was in 1997
that the doors were
said be, OK, open the doors.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: And it
was right as we were
coming into the new millennium.
And basically, the
instruction we were given
was, no more secrets.
It's time to make the
initiations available,
make the empowerment
available, make the teachings
openly taught.
And it's pretty
unprecedented, actually,
what I'm doing with the
Mystery Teaching series
because this is the first time
that these ancient Mystery
School teachings and
some of the methods
are even being taught
in this kind of format.
Usually, it's always
been done in person--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: --face to face.
You have to have been sort
of approved and whatnot.
So it's pretty amazing that
I've been given permission
to even do this in
this kind of format.
>>NOORY: That's
exciting for you.
>>BULLARD: It is
exciting, I think,
for the people who are getting
to get more easy access to some
of these teachings and methods.
But really, ultimately,
I find for me,
my own life was the proof
of what it can do for us.
It really took me from being--
I was very Type A, pretty
insecure but really determined.
>>NOORY: You're a scientist.
>>BULLARD: I was a scientist,
and yet I had my imbalances.
I had my places where I
really was not accomplishing
my full potential.
>>NOORY: Would we
have liked you then
compared to you today,
in terms of just
that overall perspective
of who you were or are?
>>BULLARD: I think that
I was likable enough,
but I was probably more
reserved and more uptight
about a lot of things.
I was really controlling.
>>NOORY: Really?
A little more deliberate?
>>BULLARD: I was
really controlling.
I tried to be nice,
but I was very insecure
in a lot of social interactions.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>BULLARD: And so by now,
it's like, OK, I am who I am,
and there's more confidence.
>>NOORY: We only
know you like this.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Yeah, well, my mom knew
me better than anyone.
When I was in my first year
with the Mystery School--
after one year, right, so just
after a 10-month program that I
had been through with their
Universal Kabbalah Ascension
Program--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: --my mom was like--
because I was living
in Seattle, but then I
went and visited my
family for the holidays,
and of course there's
nothing like family
to know what buttons to push.
And we kind get
into our dynamics
when you've been hanging
out for long enough.
But she noticed a
change in me in how
I was responding to those
old dynamics with my family
members.
And then at one point,
she's like, who are you?
What happened?
What have you been doing?
>>NOORY: Where's my daughter?
>>BULLARD: But no, she
was very impressed.
She was like, oh, whatever
you're doing, it's really good.
You're really handling
things with such
a more mature, just different
way of handling things.
I transformed this one
situation really quickly
with my sister at one point.
And the tools from
the Mystery Schools
really help us to
live a better life.
They help us to
master ourselves.
>>NOORY: Well, shouldn't
we all go through this?
>>BULLARD: Absolutely.
I think so.
But it takes that
decision, one that we
want to change your
life because again, we
tend to resist change.
We get into our comfort zone.
We have all kinds of excuses
we create for why I can't.
And whether it's the
job, or it's the kid,
or I have enough time or enough
money or whatever it is--
we always create these excuses.
And so yes, we'd love
everybody to do this,
but people have
to want to do it,
and they have to be ready
to invest in themselves
because this is
about empowerment.
If people think, well,
if it's meant to be,
it'll just happen for me.
It will just magically
appear, and the way--
>>NOORY: I think you've got
to work for it, don't you?
>>BULLARD: You do.
You do.
You have to work for
it because only when
we work for it do we
actually gain our strengths
and realize certain resources
in us that we didn't realize
we had before.
So it's like we almost
have to meet the challenge
head on and apply our
will to make it happen.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: Especially
when it comes
to an initiatory tradition.
You have to really have a
certain level of discipline
and will to make it happen
rather than just, well, if it's
all meant to be, it'll happen.
>>NOORY: Once people go
through this kind of training,
as you have, what
happens to them?
What kind of change
can you expect?
>>BULLARD: Well, I
find that people really
get into a greater level
of self-awareness, number
one, and greater
ability to harness
and manage their own energies.
So there's always
going to be events
that happen in our life
that's going to challenge us.
That does not change because
we're here to live this life,
and we're here to
be challenged by it.
But prior to Mystery
School training,
people will usually default into
their subconscious reactions
and emotionalism and judgments
and whatnot and blame
and thinking it's
everybody else.
But when they get into the
Mystery School training,
they start becoming
more self-aware.
They start realizing
how they're helping
contribute to those situations.
They're realizing, oh, that's
triggering this old issue
that I haven't
healed within myself.
And so they start
to make changes
within that then result
in changes outside.
It changes their dynamics
with relationships.
It changes their
ability-- they find
that they are able to break
through various issues
around abundance.
They find that they're
able to really harness
themselves to get their
life into the level of what
they dream.
And I mean, there's a lot
of really practical benefits
that come for helping give
us a higher quality of life
from the inside out, as opposed
to seeking it from the outside
in.
>>NOORY: Give us some examples
of the training and methods
that go through this
kind of training.
>>BULLARD: So we
use a lot of tools
that you're going to find in
many different traditions.
I mean, we use
meditation, and there's
various forms of meditation.
We use rituals, which
are a more active way
of stepping in and sort
of harnessing the energies
and calling those energies
in and directing them
towards a purpose or intent.
We use building of qi.
We use study and working
into the more ancient texts
and studying those
deeper concepts.
We work with prayer.
So we use all these
different tools,
and then, for example,
if somebody came,
first they would get a life
activation because that's just
sort of turns on the switches.
>>NOORY: What is
a life activation?
>>BULLARD: That's helping
wake up their DNA potential
and bring a certain level of
balance to their energy field.
And so we would start
them off with getting
a life activation, which is
like a one-on-one session
that people do.
It's about two hours
with a practitioner.
And then from there,
if they were to come
and really get it--
OK, I want to
experience the Mystery
School and its
teachings and training,
the next big main step
would be something
called Empower Thyself
initiation, which
is the first step of initiation
into the Mystery School path.
And that's a two-day
training, and we
have 10 different topics that
we cover during those two days.
There's a lot that gets
packed into those two days,
and it's everywhere from
deep spiritual philosophy--
who are we?
Where do we come from?
Why are we here?
Where are we going from here?
What's the nature of the
spirit, the soul, the body?
How does our energy field work?
Teaching about a bit of the
kaballah, teaching about ego--
negative ego, positive
ego, how our mind
processes information, how we
can harness our senses more.
And we get a lot
of practical tools.
I find within the
Mystery School,
in the Modern Mystery School,
it's very much about here's
the tools so you can go
and empower your life,
and so we're giving
you this tool.
Now you can go use
it and live it.
And we actually
deliver the practical
before some of the theoretical
because in the past,
it would've been the other way.
You might have just studied
and studied and studied
and did all theory before
you got into the practical.
But in today's
world, it's almost
like we lack the time to
do all the theory before we
get into the practice.
So we're introducing
people straight away
into the practice, and
then along the way,
the theory reveals itself
more, and we can then
deepen that practice.
>>NOORY: Well, and
you've mentioned
you've completed Season
1 of Mystery Teachings.
>>BULLARD: Yes.
Is there a way to harness
our quantum potential
and truly direct the
course of reality?
Many people are talking about
a shift in human evolution.
What is driving this shift?
And how do we steer it
in a positive direction?
The answers to these questions
truly rests in our hands.
Human thought is still very
much stuck in a Newtonian way
of operating.
One thing is for sure--
achieving such a balance will
require a core shift in how
we think, act, and relate--
in other words,
a paradigm shift.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is Mystery Teachings.
>>NOORY: You seem like you
have fun doing this show.
>>BULLARD: I do.
Well, it was a very interesting
process for me, actually.
It was a new
challenge, for sure.
But bringing the science,
digging back into the science
in a really deep
way helped remind
me of what I was interested
in science from the beginning,
but then being able to weave it
together with the metaphysics
and weave this story
along through Season 1.
It was like, OK, this
is why I got that PhD
so that I could
really start bringing
this kind of information to
people and weaving it together.
And I had a lot of
personal discoveries
to take it even deeper--
for example, I figured out how
to put the whole standard model
of quantum physics onto the tree
of life in three dimensions,
and that was--
I always knew it could go.
I knew there was some
way to arrange it
all on the tree of
life from kabbalah,
but I didn't quite dig
into it until I was
preparing for this Season 1.
So it was fun for me to have
some of those aha moments
and discoveries again,
linking it to the science.
>>NOORY: Well, I'm
glad Gaia, too,
recognizes the need
for programs like this
and for people like you.
>>BULLARD: I'm very
grateful to Gaia as well
for giving me that chance.
And so Season 1 was very
much about the theory
and the concepts and weaving
the science and the metaphysics
together to give it
just some credibility,
give the metaphysics
more of a credibility.
I don't think it
needed that, but a lot
of people in today's world do.
They trust the science.
And so this was to help bridge.
And then Season 2 is
now OK, how do we really
apply this to our lives?
How do we really take
this in and start
harnessing our potential?
What is our potential?
We get into from everywhere
from the DNA to the senses
to the brain and how the brain
works, the nervous system
and how we start using
various activities and methods
and stimuli to help turn on
and rewire the brain and body
and so forth so that we can
use more of the capacity that
is within us.
>>NOORY: It sounds like you're
using your science ability now
to shift into the
metaphysical end of it.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Well, I'm using the
science as a foundation
to help people understand.
>>NOORY: It grounds
you, doesn't it?
>>BULLARD: It's grounded, yeah.
This isn't just woo-woo.
This isn't just spiritual
energy, new age stuff.
This is-- we're talking science.
>>NOORY: We call
it mummy foo-foo.
>>BULLARD: Mummy foo-foo, OK.
>>NOORY: It's a new word.
>>BULLARD: I haven't
heard that one yet.
>>NOORY: I've created that word.
>>BULLARD: Oh, that's yours?
OK, mummy foo-foo, yes.
So it's not that--
>>NOORY: I want to hear you say
that on your Mystery Teachings
show.
>>BULLARD: This is not
mummy foo-foo, everyone.
Yeah, so this is not that.
This is like, hey, there
is a reason to all of this.
There's a reason why all
this works the way it does,
and because there's a reason,
that means here is natural law,
there's physical law, and
therefore, there's alchemy,
we can learn how to harness it.
And if we learn what the right
vibrations and stimuli are
to bring in a harmonious
way, we can rewire our system
to retrain it to really
give us more access
to our optimal
functioning because when
we were growing up, we didn't
have that proper upbringing.
>>NOORY: No.
>>BULLARD: We didn't have the
proper stimuli and training
coming in.
>>NOORY: But are
some people, Theresa,
born with this ability?
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
some people are.
>>NOORY: Where it's
just natural for them.
>>BULLARD: I think that even
if they're born with it,
they still need training.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BULLARD: Because if
they're born with it,
they're going to be
so out of the norm
that they're not going to
understand, why am I this way?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>BULLARD: And if they don't
get the proper training--
I think this applies to a lot
of the millennial generation
or what in spiritual
traditions were
going to call the Indigo
Generation, or the younger
kids.
They're coming in with
these different gifts,
and yet a lot of them
came into a society that
wasn't ready for them and
didn't know how to support them.
And so even though
they were born with it,
their psychology got
really messed up.
And then some of them
went to drugs as a way
to cope because they just
had to numb everything out.
>>NOORY: And then they got
deeper and deeper and deeper
into it.
>>BULLARD: And then they lost
their ability to really harness
what they're here for.
And so they need the training,
even if they're born that way.
>>NOORY: Is that why the
suicide rate is so high,
and stuff like that?
>>BULLARD: I believe so, yeah.
Yeah.
And it's hard.
It's hard to come into a world,
an environment where you've
got this uniqueness about you
and these gifts you're supposed
to be manifesting,
and yet you're
not being supported
by the people who
are around you as you're
growing up as a child.
That's going to cause a
lot of deep psyche issues.
But no matter whether we were--
I mean, everybody was born with
it, and I think at some level,
we all shut it down because
of our indoctrination.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Life tends to do that, too.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, traumas,
and just as children,
we have these
experiences, and we don't
know how to make sense of them.
So we try to make sense
of it, and then it's
from a limited
perspective, and then
we end up shutting things
down because of that.
But as adults, we
want to reconnect
because we know
that at some level,
there's something missing.
And it's a part of
us that's missing.
And so we want to
reconnect and reclaim that,
and that is a
process where we need
to now get the proper
retraining, reprogramming,
so that we can rewire our mental
constructs, our nervous system,
brain wiring, all of it so that
we can really start to tap back
in to how we were meant to be.
>>NOORY: How many physicists,
Theresa, get this?
I would say not a lot.
>>BULLARD: Not a lot, a
couple, a small percentage.
>>NOORY: But those that do--
doesn't it make their work
and the work of science
even better?
>>BULLARD: I'm sure
those who do get it--
they believe that.
They feel that like me, going
through my science training,
every time I saw one of
those just amazing things,
the fine-tuning of the universe
or how the number phi and e
and pi all relate together.
I'd see these things,
and it always, to me,
would be evidence that
there's intelligence--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BULLARD: --behind
this universe and that
there is a spiritual
quality to it.
And I think a lot of those
scientists who do get this,
they sort of had that kind
of feeling all along the way.
I have met a couple, though,
who were atheists prior.
They were scientists, but
they were open-minded.
>>NOORY: They became believers.
Yeah.
>>BULLARD: And only through
their research did--
>>NOORY: Were they
atheists or agnostics?
>>BULLARD: They would have
called themselves atheists.
>>NOORY: Nonbelievers.
>>BULLARD: Nonbelievers, yeah.
They were very much in the
material kind of mindset.
And yet they were open-minded.
It wasn't like a belief system.
Scientists are
meant to question,
and don't allow our biases
to affect our research.
And yet we tend to get
into our own biases,
so science has its
own dogma today.
>>NOORY: Right.
It sure does.
>>BULLARD: Just like
any religion does.
And yet there are
certain scientists
who, maybe they're
a materialist,
but they followed the
full line of logic
to try and figure out what
consciousness really is,
and then they question
their assumptions,
and then they turned it on
its head, and they realized,
you know what?
The only conclusion is
consciousness is primary.
It comes first.
And then the material
comes second.
>>NOORY: How can we use
this to help the world?
There's that inner self, and
then there's that outer self.
>>BULLARD: Right.
>>NOORY: How do we take
care of the bigger picture?
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
So one of the principles
that I introduced in Season 1
is the principle
of correspondence,
and it also relates in quantum
physics to entanglement.
And that's as the
inner, so the outer.
>>NOORY: And you're going
to shift in Season 2.
>>BULLARD: Season
2 is now, how do
we take this into application?
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
>>NOORY: How do
you make it work?
>>BULLARD: How do we
make it work, yeah.
So if we can make
changes on the inside,
that will automatically start
sending out the ripple effect
through the collective.
So number one, we can
focus on the inner
and make those changes inside
to really harness ourselves,
and the more people who do that,
the more we can start moving
towards that
critical mass number,
the more that will then create
a big shift in the world.
But at a very
practical level, we
can start within our own home.
And so we want to
awaken that divinity,
let's say, within
ourselves, but then how am I
expressing that into my life?
How am I-- is my
home environment
conducive to this
state of harmony
and Shambhala, peace,
world of peace?
Am I creating peace
within my own home
and within my
relationships immediately?
And then we can expand the
bubble a little bit more.
How about in my community?
What am I doing in my community
to make that difference?
And then how about in the world?
Is there some big
project or some cause
in the world that I feel
really passionate about,
that I would want to
see a shift in that way?
And then maybe that's
part of your purpose,
and so step into really
taking an active role
to help make a
difference in a bigger,
bigger way in the world.
>>NOORY: If you had this moment
to talk with Albert Einstein,
what would you be
talking to him about?
>>BULLARD: I would be
probably talking to him
about the cosmological
constant because he called it
his biggest blunder
when he was alive.
>>NOORY: He did.
>>BULLARD: And the
cosmological constant
was this idea that
there is an accelerating
force in the universe
somehow counteracting
gravitational pull.
>>NOORY: And you
say it's not there?
>>BULLARD: No, it is there.
>>NOORY: It is there.
>>BULLARD: It is there now.
>>NOORY: He said
it wasn't, though.
>>BULLARD: He said it
was his biggest blunder.
And now, science is coming
full circle back around to it,
saying, no, the universe is
expanding at an accelerated
rate.
Why?
And one of the main
theories is that there
must be this cosmological
constant, meaning that there's
some anti-gravity force, some
expansive force coming straight
out of the vacuum.
In every little cubic
centimeter of space,
straight out of
the vacuum, there's
some kind of force
pushing itself out.
And that goes back into
the ancient alchemical idea
of an ether, that there
is this sort of dimension
of etheric energy between the
physical and the spiritual,
and that that plane
of the ether is--
today, we would call the Quantum
Sea and the quantum potential.
So I think that if he hadn't
called that his biggest
blunder, I think he
might have actually-- we
would have been further along
in our scientific understanding
than we are today.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>BULLARD: Because
quantum physics
and Einstein's relativity
are the two major pillars
of science today.
>>NOORY: It's what drives it.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
But they don't agree
with each other.
>>NOORY: Right.
They're at odds.
>>BULLARD: Yeah, and so I
think that there's some things
that Einstein missed
because he didn't
like some of the implications
of quantum theory.
He didn't like God doesn't
play dice with the universe.
He didn't like the randomness.
>>NOORY: Would he have liked
your thoughts about things?
>>BULLARD: I hope so.
I'm sure he would have had--
we would have had some
pretty dynamic conversations
because he was a pretty
staunch materialist, actually.
Well, not materialist,
but he was
into the reductionist model,
a very classical there's
got to be a reason
behind everything,
everything has a
certain order to it.
There's purpose to it.
And I agree with all of that,
but he was looking at it
from that Newtonian
paradigm, whereas I
agree that there is an order.
There is a cause and effect.
There's a reason
behind everything,
but we have to look
at so many more
planes of causation
and vibrational levels
for how that works.
>>NOORY: And if
today, someone were
to give you a title, a new
title, what would that be?
>>BULLARD: A new title?
>>NOORY: What would
you want to be called?
>>BULLARD: I don't even know.
>>NOORY: A metaphysicist?
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Well, I'm an alchemist, but I'm
more of a spiritual alchemist,
I would say.
So I am more about the alchemy
of the self and our own soul,
and yet I do bring the science
in, so physicist and alchemist.
>>NOORY: Well, and
that's important.
Thanks for being on the program.
>>BULLARD: Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: And good luck
with "Mystery Teachings."
>>BULLARD: Thank you.
Yeah, it's been a
pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: She's an amazing
guest, a physicist
who also has become
metaphysical, puts
the two together, and voila.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]